>> Mike North: We're gonna go through
the solution to this ninth exercise where
having already tackled the task of
a stateless functional component for
the placed search result item.
And having already handled some
switching in the render function,
based on props passed in to that
list component we just finished.
Now we are going to take on
the task of dealing with this
state management ourselves, right in
this place search container component.
This is a very common pattern that the
container presentation component pattern.
Very common for the purpose of
making sure that you separate
state management from
things that render state.
In order to reduce potential
causing of oneself to re-render.
So the first thing I'm gonna do here.
No, actually let me before I do that make
sure that I am running the correct app.
>> Mike North: This is autocomplete 3,
that's the name of this exercise.
Let's refresh and see where we're at.
It says replace this with
the search result list, we'll do.
And we're getting yelled at here for
not passing in the correct result,
the correct props.
If we look at the props that this expects,
there it is.
It wants us to pass in results
in progress, a search term, and
an un-search term changed.
So some of that we have available, or
we had available in our last exercise.
But let's see where we're at,
I'm just gonna leave myself
a little bit of a note here.
So we need, actually, yeah,
this is a fine place to put it.
>> Mike North: Just gonna copy this so
that we will be able to come back and
address that.
So a list of results whether
the search is in progress,
the search term itself, and
this function whether it's changed or not.
Let me grab that function type just for
completeness.
It takes in a string as an argument and
returns, we don't care.
That's what void means,
it returns we don't care.
So note that this place search
container has empty object
types as both its state and
its prop's interfaces.
We are going to not worry about props for
this particular component, but
we do need to worry about state
which is this first one here.
I'm just gonna call this
IPlaceSearchContainerState, and
we'll define that up here.
>> Mike North: And I'm just gonna
basically make it these first three terms.
Similar to what we had in
the last exercise, right?
What that'll let me do is make
this component happy by doing
the same thing we were doing before.
This state, need one more dot, and
then this last thing we can
handle more explicitly.
>> Mike North: On search
term changed equals this.
Begin search, and
let's see do we take care of binding it?
We did in this case.
We bound that to this component so
that whenever it's invoked,
we will get the calling context we expect.
We can treat it as executing in
the context of this component.
>> Mike North: And let's see,
what is it complaining about now?
>> Mike North: So that's optional,
those are passed in, okay.
So now, we don't have anything for
this .state.
That's what it's complaining about.
This is an empty object here.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
I've got this reversed.
Props comes first, state comes second, now
this will complain and this will be happy.
So our place search results list is happy.
We've sort of moved the error up too.
Now the component we're looking at right
now says when you initialized your state,
you gave me something
that was not allowed.
You can't just pass an empty object,
these things are required.
You have to give me something
that matches this shape.
So we'll say results is
new array in progress.
We start out not being in progress.
And the search term is an empty string.
So now we've satisfied the minimum
conditions for making this work.
And if we type something in,
nothing happens.
The reason being nothing
is in this function.
>> Mike North: But
the function is being called so
now all we have to do is
sort of wire this up.
This is gonna be an async function.
You could either call it an async
function or have it return a promise.
If I call it an async function,
I can use a weight inside it.
So I'm going to choose to do that.
So first thing, we're gonna setState.
Our search term is gonna be set updated,
right?
Based on this event that comes in,
we will update the current search term.
And we will say inProgress is true.
>> Mike North: So now we should start to
see a more interesting message coming
through already.
>> Mike North: Great, so now we sort
of switched into this other mode,
where we're saying this component
knows that there's a search underway.
And if we delete everything, we're back
into the empty search term case, so
that's handled.
The next thing we want to do is
leverage this auto complete module.
So, we've got this thing, it returns a set
of place details from a given search term.
So, we're gonna pass the term in there,
and
we'll say,
>> Mike North: Let results
equal await autocomplete.
So just looking at this here,
one of the things I hope you take away
from this workshop is a lot of the code
you write does not have to have explicit
type definitions all over the place.
There is nothing on this line
that is a type definition.
In fact, there's nothing in the line
above that's a type definition.
We sort of define some types up front,
some structure, and
then wherever type script can infer,
it does infer.
And we get the benefit of knowing that
this function returns a particular thing.
And in here, we say we return a promise
that resolves to PlaceDetails.
But if we got rid of that,
it would still work.
Particularly with return values,
TypeScript is pretty good at figuring
out what you're returning, right?
So even in here, there's not, I mean we
say we need an argument to be passed in.
Arguments are sort of there you
do need to set up some structure.
But the rest of this, I mean, it looks
kinda like of like regular java script.
Even this, we don't need this, that's
just for your benefit here as developers,
so you can look at this file and
know that's what it is.
But the fact that this already returns
that thing, cuz it was cast here,
so that's gonna give us the exact
same types throughout our system.
So I want you to just not litter
these type annotations everywhere.
That is a common mistake when people
start jumping into TypeScript,
to just go nuts with these things.
If you can remove a type annotation, and
your editor still says yeah, I can still
tell you that that’s the same type, it’s
better to omit it than to have it there.
Having it there doesn’t really give
you all that much additional safety in
a situation like this.
But it does kind of make the code
a little more difficult to read.
And makes it harder for
other people who are more experienced
in JavaScript than in TypeScript to sort
of jump in and reason about this code.
But here like we have as much
type safety as we ever could
and we're not littering
annotations all over the place.
So then what we can do is now
that we'll have the results
we're basically gonna pause here.
And even within the atuocomplete
there are other awaits, right.
So we're gonna await for
this async function to resolve.
We'll get that result sent back and
then we can do this setState,
results, and then in progress false.
>> Mike North: So I'm just gonna
move these comments around so
they correspond to the appropriate lines.
So initiate a search using
the autocomplete module.
When the problems resolves,
update your state accordingly.
>> Mike North: What
are we doing wrong here?
SetState, maybe we didn't save or
didn't refresh.
There it is coffee coming through.
Any questions about this?
>> Mike North: All right, cuz this was
the slow pitch right before the fast ball.
We're about to hit the hardest
exercise in the whole course,
but it is a pretty rewarding one.
>> Mike North: So,
let's close this stuff down.
Let me make a quick commit.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question but
I don't want to derail us.
>> Mike North: Ask away.
>> Speaker 2: So, I just noticed
that if I type one letter and
delete it, in the search bar it
still actually did the search.
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: How could, and
I think I understand why.
>> Mike North: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Because the async
is resolving after I have set my
search result state, all right?
>> Mike North: So,
what's happening is a race condition.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Mike North: Where with each letter,
each letter that goes out, right?
When we type a few keys,
we're basically saying go and
fetch some updated search results.
And we pass it a callback and say, when
you arrive back update your page, right?
And so if we send out four of these,
you actually see four
refreshes on the page happen.
This is a typical challenge people
run into when working with promises,
where they're not cancelable, right?
So, it's almost like we wish
there was a way where, for
the next event, we can kind of disregard
anything that's currently in progress.
So once we complete this next exercise I
will be able to show you how we
can logically take that next step.
And essentially baked into
areas that our app doesn't need to
worry about on a case by case basis.
Set up a cancellable asynchronous chain
of events where basically between
every promise we examine to see
whether we've been cancelled yet.
And if we have we just stop, that's one of
the great powerful aspects
of generator functions.
>> Mike North: That's not a side track.
That's exactly where we're going.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
there are a lot of branches, but
video watchers will appreciate this.
>> Mike North: All right.